A computer program - a set of instructions.
Basic instructions: Input, Process, Output

Variables - to store data
Algorithm - a sequence of instructions that solves a program

Input:
import java.util.Scanner;
A Scanner is a text parser to get input using Scanner object:
    Scanner scnr = new Scanner(System.in);
    System.in == keyboard input
    then scnr(Scanner object) is used to assign value.
        x = scnr.nextInt();

Output:
"" - text in double quote is called string literal

Compiler ---> Executable Java Byte code

Errors:
Syntax errors: violating language's rules on symbols to create program
Logical error: a bug, an error which occurs while a program runs.

FAQ
    Bug: word is from a moth which got stuck in Harvard University Mark 2 computer in 1947.

Warnings: A compiler warning syntax: javac -Xlint fileName.java

Processors:
Memory-->Circuit/Processor--->(Needs instructions)
Instructions(formed by 0 and 1's series of addressed locations) ---> stored in memory
Basically, a computer's processor executes program in instructions stored in memory and stores temporary results in memory as well

Early days only machine languages using bits was used--difficult to read and hence, assembly language was created to convert human readable instructions to machine language.
in 1960-70's high level languages were created to write a formula.
    Languages including- FORTRAN(Formula translator) or ALGOL(algorithmic language)
To support HLL, compilers were created, easily converting HLL to executable

Code History
1978, Brian Kernighan and Dennis Ritchie at AT&T Bell Labs published book describing a new high-level language C.
C became a dominant language in 1980's and 1990's.

1985, Bjarne Stroustrup published a book describing a C based language: C++. for OOP.
++ is like one more in programming, so C++ is like one improved version of C.
in 1991, James Gosling and a team of engineers at Sun Microsystems(acquired by oracle in 2010) began Java, language menat to be portable and executable to different processors, released in 1995.
    Java had oop and executable on virtual machine.